Update Model Optimizer User Guide (#10759)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/prepare_model/Additional_Optimizations.md

> # Optimizing Preprocessing Computation {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Additional_Optimization_Use_Cases}

Author: Done

> Input data for inference can be different from training dataset and requires additional preprocessing before inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input data for inference can be different from the training dataset and requires additional preprocessing before inference.
```

Author: Done

> In order to accelerate the whole pipeline including preprocessing and inference, Model Optimizer provides special parameters such as `--mean_values`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accelerate the whole pipeline including preprocessing and inference, Model Optimizer provides special parameters such as `--mean_values`,
```

> `--scale_values`, `--reverse_input_channels`, and `--layout`. Based on these parameters, Model Optimizer generates IR with additionally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--scale_values`, `--reverse_input_channels`, and `--layout`. Based on these parameters, Model Optimizer generates an IR with an additionally
```

Author: Done

> inserted sub-graph that performs defined preprocessing. This preprocessing block can perform mean-scale normalization of input data,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inserted sub-graph that performs the defined preprocessing. This preprocessing block can perform mean-scale normalization of the input data,
```

Author: Done

> reverting data along channel dimension, and changing layout of data. For more details about these parameters, refer to paragraphs below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reverting the data along channel dimension, and changing the data layout. For more details about these parameters, see the paragraphs below.
```

Author: Done

## When to Specify Layout

> Layout defines which dimensions are located in shape and can be specified

Reviewer 2: Reordered a bit, but would like to get suggestions from @andrew-zaytsev

> for both inputs and outputs. For layout syntax check the [Layout API overview](../../OV_Runtime_UG/layout_overview.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for both inputs and outputs. For the layout syntax, check the [Layout API overview](../../OV_Runtime_UG/layout_overview.md). 
```

> To specify layout, you can use either `--layout` or `--source_layout` followed by the layout value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify the layout, you can use either `--layout` or `--source_layout` followed by the layout value. 
```

> Additionally, if a model has more than one input or needs both input and output layouts specified,

Author: @mvafin, please address

each layout needs to be given a name. Here are examples of the two cases:
* `NCHW` layout specified for a model with a single input:

```
mo --input_model /path/to/model --source_layout nchw
mo --input_model /path/to/model --layout nchw
```

* `NCHW` and `NC` layouts specified for a model with two inputs:

```
mo --input_model /path/to/model --source_layout name1(nchw),name2(nc)
mo --input_model /path/to/model --layout name1(nchw),name2(nc)
```

> Some preprocessing may require setting of input layouts, for example: batch setting,

Author: @mvafin, please address

application of mean or scales, and reversing input channels (BGR<->RGB).

## How to Change Layout of a Model 

> Changing model layout may be necessary if it differs from the one presented by input data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing the model layout may be necessary if it differs from the one presented by the input data. 
```

> Similarly to specifying layout, to change it you can use one of two commands: either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to specifying the layout, to change it, you can use either 
```

`--layout` or `--target_layout`. Again, if a model has more than one input or needs both input
and output layouts specified, each layout needs to be given a name. Here are examples of the
two cases:
* `NHWC` layout of a single-input model changed to `NCHW`:

```
mo --input_model /path/to/model --source_layout nhwc --target_layout nchw
mo --input_model /path/to/model --layout "nhwc->nchw"
```

* `NHWC` layout of a multi-input model changed to `NCHW`:

```
mo --input_model /path/to/model --source_layout name1(nhwc),name2(nc) --target_layout name1(nchw)

> mo --input_model /path/to/model --layout "name1(nhwc->nchw),name2(nc)"

Author: @mvafin, please address

```

## When to Specify Mean and Scale Values
Usually neural network models are trained with the normalized input data. This means that the input data values are converted to be in a specific range,
for example, `[0, 1]` or `[-1, 1]`. Sometimes the mean values (mean images) are subtracted from the input data values as part of the pre-processing.
There are two cases how the input data pre-processing is implemented.
 * The input pre-processing operations are a part of a topology. In this case, the application that uses the framework to infer the topology does not pre-process the input.
 * The input pre-processing operations are not a part of a topology and the pre-processing is performed within the application which feeds the model with an input data.

> In the first case, the Model Optimizer generates the IR with required pre-processing operations and OpenVINO Samples may be used to infer the model.

Author: Not sure what is wrong. Please clarify

> In the first case, the Model Optimizer generates the IR with required pre-processing operations and OpenVINO Samples may be used to infer the model.

Author: Will remove

> In the first case, the Model Optimizer generates the IR with required pre-processing operations and OpenVINO Samples may be used to infer the model.

Author: Done

In the second case, information about mean/scale values should be provided to the Model Optimizer to embed it to the generated IR.
Model Optimizer provides a number of command line parameters to specify them: `--mean_values`, `--scale_values`, `--scale`.

> > **NOTE:** If both mean and scale values are specified, the mean is subtracted first and then scale is applied regardless of the order of options

Author: Done

> in command line. Input values are *divided* by the scale value(s). If also `--reverse_input_channels` option is used, the reverse_input_channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in command line. Input values are *divided* by the scale value(s). If also `--reverse_input_channels` option is used, the `reverse_input_channels`
```

Author: Done

> will be applied first, then mean and after that scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be applied first, then `mean` and after that `scale`.
```

Author: Done

> will be applied first, then mean and after that scale.

Author: Done

There is no a universal recipe for determining the mean/scale values for a particular model. The steps below could help to determine them:
* Read the model documentation. Usually the documentation describes mean/scale value if the pre-processing is required.
* Open the example script/application executing the model and track how the input data is read and passed to the framework.
* Open the model in a visualization tool and check for layers performing subtraction or multiplication (like `Sub`, `Mul`, `ScaleShift`, `Eltwise` etc)

> of the input data. If such layers exist, pre-processing is probably part of the model.

Author: Done

For example, run the Model Optimizer for the PaddlePaddle* UNet model and apply mean-scale normalization to the input data.

```sh

> mo --input_model unet.pdmodel --input data --mean_values data[123,117,104] --scale_values data[255,255,255]

Author: Done

```

## When to Reverse Input Channels <a name="when_to_reverse_input_channels"></a>

> Input data for your application can be of RGB or BRG color input order. For example, OpenVINO Samples load input images in the BGR channels order.

Author: No need to mention OV samples.

> Input data for your application can be of RGB or BRG color input order. For example, OpenVINO Samples load input images in the BGR channels order.

Author: Done

However, the model may be trained on images loaded with the opposite order (for example, most TensorFlow\* models are trained with images in RGB order).
In this case, inference results using the OpenVINO samples may be incorrect. The solution is to provide `--reverse_input_channels` command line parameter.

> Taking this parameter, the Model Optimizer performs first convolution or other channel dependent operation weights modification so these operations output

Author: Will remove

> Taking this parameter, the Model Optimizer performs first convolution or other channel dependent operation weights modification so these operations output

Author: Done

will be like the image is passed with RGB channels order.

For example, launch the Model Optimizer for the TensorFlow* AlexNet model with reversed input channels order between RGB and BGR.

```sh
mo --input_model alexnet.pb --reverse_input_channels

> ```

Reviewer 3: can we add `see also` with preprocessing in runtime? It provides more capabilities

Author: Done

# Embedding Preprocessing Computation {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Additional_Optimization_Use_Cases}

Input data for inference can be different from training dataset and requires additional preprocessing before inference.
In order to accelerate the whole pipeline including preprocessing and inference, Model Optimizer provides special parameters such as `--mean_values`,
`--scale_values`, `--reverse_input_channels`, and `--layout`. Based on these parameters, Model Optimizer generates IR with additionally
inserted sub-graph that performs defined preprocessing. This preprocessing block can perform mean-scale normalization of input data,
reverting data along channel dimension, and changing layout of data. For more details about these parameters, refer to paragraphs below.

## When to Specify Layout

> Some preprocessing may require setting of input layouts, for example: batch setting,

Reviewer 2: the setting? is this really correct? That sounds wrong to me...

> Some preprocessing may require setting of input layouts, for example: batch setting,

Reviewer 4: It does sound a bit weird, so maybe something like "You may need to set input layouts, as it is required by some preprocessing, e.g. setting a batch, "

> Some preprocessing may require setting of input layouts, for example: batch setting,
> application of mean or scales, and reversing input channels (BGR<->RGB).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You may need to set input layouts, as it is required by some preprocessing, for example, setting a batch,
applying mean or scales, and reversing input channels (BGR<->RGB).
```

Layout defines meaning of dimensions in shape and can be specified for both inputs and outputs.
For the layout syntax, check the [Layout API overview](../../OV_Runtime_UG/layout_overview.md). 
To specify the layout, you can use `--layout` option followed by the layout value. 

For example, for Tensorflow\* `nasnet_large` model that was exported to ONNX format and thus has input with `NHWC` layout:

```
mo --input_model tf_nasnet_large.onnx --layout nhwc
```

Additionally, if a model has more than one input or needs both input and output layouts specified,

> each layout needs to be given a name.

Reviewer 2: This is the second review of this paragraph and the meaning gets lost. You need not "to name" a layout but provide a name of input or output for which layout needs to be applied

For example, for ONNX\* `Yolo v3 Tiny` model that has first input `input_1` in `NCHW` layout and second input `image_shape`
with 2 dimensions: batch and size of the image which can be expressed as `N?` layout:

```
mo --input_model yolov3-tiny.onnx --layout input_1(nchw),image_shape(n?)
```

## How to Change Layout of a Model Inputs and Outputs

Changing the model layout may be necessary if it differs from the one presented by input data. 
To change the layout, you can use either `--layout` or `--source_layout` with `--target_layout`.

For example, for the same `nasnet_large` that were mentioned previously we may want to provide data in `NCHW` layout:

```
mo --input_model tf_nasnet_large.onnx --source_layout nhwc --target_layout nchw
mo --input_model tf_nasnet_large.onnx --layout "nhwc->nchw"
```

Again, if a model has more than one input or needs both input and output layouts specified, each layout needs to be

> given a name.

Reviewer 2: same as above

For example, if for the mentioned earlier `Yolo v3 Tiny` model we want to provide data in `NHWC` layout:

```
mo --input_model yolov3-tiny.onnx --source_layout "input_1(nchw),image_shape(n?)" --target_layout "input_1(nhwc)"
mo --input_model yolov3-tiny.onnx --layout "input_1(nchw->nhwc),image_shape(n?)"
```

## When to Specify Mean and Scale Values
Usually neural network models are trained with the normalized input data. This means that the input data values are converted to be in a specific range,
for example, `[0, 1]` or `[-1, 1]`. Sometimes the mean values (mean images) are subtracted from the input data values as part of the pre-processing.

> There are two cases how the input data pre-processing is implemented.

Author: Done

 * The input pre-processing operations are a part of a model. In this case, the application does not pre-process the input data as a separate step: everything is embedded into the model itself.

>  * The input pre-processing operations are not a part of a topology and the pre-processing is performed within the application which feeds the model with an input data.

Author: Done

In the first case, the Model Optimizer generates the IR with required pre-processing operations and OpenVINO Samples may be used to infer the model.

In the second case, information about mean/scale values should be provided to the Model Optimizer to embed it to the generated IR.
Model Optimizer provides a number of command line parameters to specify them: `--mean_values`, `--scale_values`, `--scale`.

> > **NOTE:** If both mean and scale values are specified, the mean is subtracted first and then scale is applied regardless of the order of options

Author: Done

> in command line. Input values are *divided* by the scale value(s). If also `--reverse_input_channels` option is used, the reverse_input_channels

Author: Done

> will be applied first, then mean and after that scale. In other words, the data flow in the model looks as following:

Author: Done

`Parameter -> ReverseInputChannels -> Mean apply-> Scale apply -> the original body of the model`.

> There is no a universal recipe for determining the mean/scale values for a particular model. The steps below could help to determine them:

Author: "no a"? Not sure that this is correct.

> * Read the model documentation. Usually the documentation describes mean/scale value if the pre-processing is required.

Author: Done

* Open the example script/application executing the model and track how the input data is read and passed to the framework.

For example, run the Model Optimizer for the PaddlePaddle* UNet model and apply mean-scale normalization to the input data.

```sh
mo --input_model unet.pdmodel --input data --mean_values data[123,117,104] --scale_values data[255,255,255]
```

## When to Reverse Input Channels <a name="when_to_reverse_input_channels"></a>
Input data for your application can be of RGB or BRG color input order. For example, OpenVINO Samples load input images in the BGR channels order.
However, the model may be trained on images loaded with the opposite order (for example, most TensorFlow models are trained with images in RGB order).

> In this case, inference results using the OpenVINO samples may be incorrect. The solution is to provide `--reverse_input_channels` command line parameter.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In this case, inference results using the OpenVINO samples may be incorrect. The solution is to provide the `--reverse_input_channels` command-line parameter.
```

Author: Done

> Taking this parameter, the Model Optimizer performs first convolution or other channel dependent operation weights modification so these operations output

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Taking this parameter, the Model Optimizer performs first convolution or other channel-dependent modification of the operation weights so the output of the operations
```

Author: Done

Input data for inference can be different from training dataset and requires additional preprocessing before inference.
In order to accelerate the whole pipeline including preprocessing and inference, Model Optimizer provides special parameters such as `--mean_values`,

> `--scale_values`, `--reverse_input_channels` and `--layout`. Based on these parameters, Model Optimizer generates IR with additionally

Author: comma is missed:  `--reverse_input_channels`, and `--layout

Reviewer 2: comma before "and"? why?

Author: grammar rules it is a case with a list of more two items.

Reviewer 4: Yep, it is not a strict rule and both versions should be considered "proper" but as a good practice it would be awesome if we used comma before "and" where there are more than two elements listed. It's called Oxford Comma by some, makes text easier to read, and is more popular in American English than in British English. Sorry for the long explanation but I'm a fan of Oxford Comma :) 
Examples:
I ate a hot-dog, a meatloaf and a tortilla. (hot-dog is not a meatloaf and a tortilla put together, as it might be understood).
We ate a hot-dog and Cola, pizza and Fanta, a burger and beer, and nachos and Sprite. (just imagine it without commas ;) )

inserted sub-graph that performs defined preprocessing. This preprocessing block can perform mean-scale normalization of input data,
reverting data along channel dimension and changing layout of data. For more details about these parameters, refer to paragraphs below.

## When to Specify Layout

Layout defines which dimensions are located in shape and can be specified
for both inputs and outputs. For layout syntax check the [Layout API overview](../../OV_Runtime_UG/layout_overview.md). 
To specify layout, you can use either `--layout` or `--source_layout` followed by the layout value. 

> Additionally, if a model has more than one input or needs both input and output layouts specified,

Author: I think these two sub-section should be below `scale/mean` and `revert`

Author: discussed
